# Transcript

Earlier today I counted the files that I regularly back up
and keep in my directory,
and found that there are more than seven hundred thousand.
In order to organize them, I keep them in various directories or folders.
In this unit what we'll see how we can create folders,
how we can specify files in absolute and relative terms
corresponding to the current directory,
how we can recursively process files in folders, and so on.
Relative paths allow us to express a file
relative to the directory we are currently in.
The pwd command displays the path of the current directory.
It stands for print working directory.
I'm currently in /home/dds, which is my home directory.
With mkdir I can create new directories.
Here I'm creating a directory named a.
Using cd we can change the current directory to the specified argument.
In this case I cd to the a directory.
So if I now type pwd, we see that I'm in /home/dds/a.
Each directory has a link to its parent directory with a special name ..
By cd-ing to .. , I move up one directory and my current directory is again /home/dds.
Now if I cd .. and move one more level up, I get to the home directory.
By repeating the command, we reach the top-level directory called root.
From the root directory
we can navigate back to our current directory
by combining the various path elements separated by slashes.
Therefore, cd home/dds/a is the same with cd-ing to home,
then to dds, and lastly to a.
The same occurs when moving up directories.
By cd-ing to../.., I move up two directories
and reach the home directory.
Finally, entering cd with no arguments takes us to our home directory.
Absolute paths express a file's location relative to the top, the root directory.
First using cd I move to my home directory.
To move to another directory with an absolute path,
we precede the path with a slash.
So cd /tmp takes us to the tmp directory.
From there, we can use an absolute path to go straight to our home directory,
which in my case is /home/dds.
The slash is the root directory.
It's useful to have a brief idea of what directories exist - there,
so let's have a look.
The first one, bin for binary,
is the place where the most essential commands are stored.
In boot there are files related to the system's operation at startup,
dev, is a special directory corresponding to the devices of the system.
From dev, one can access the terminal, the tape drive, the disks etc.
etc, is a directory with administrative information associated with the system.
home, contains the private files of the users.
lib, for library maintains data files associated with various commands.
lost and found, is a special directory that is used during disk maintenance
to store files that are found without proper linkage to other directories.
On the other hand, the mnt directory, which stands for mount,
is used for mounting external storage devices, such as USB flash drives.
proc, contains information about the system;
we'll examine this directory in more detail later on.
sbin for system binaries stores essential files used by the system administrator.
tmp gathers the temporary files of the system,
particularly files that are used and then get deleted.
usr, for user is used for storing additional commands in libraries,
that are not essential for booting up the system.
Lastly - var, for variable contains files that vary during the system's runtime,
such as log files and mail files.
If I move to usr, I notice some common files with the root directory.
There is again a bin directory for binaries of less essential commands,
which are not needed during the system's startup.
There is a games directory with some simple console games,
an include directory with the headers of C and C++ programs,
and another lib directory with additional libraries.
In addition,
there is a local directory that maintains information about locally installed commands,
and more system binaries are found in sbin.
The share directory contains text and documentation,
that can be shared among diverse systems independent of their architecture,
and finally, the src directory
stores the source code of various commands and libraries.
Let's now see some basic commands you can use to manipulate files.
Let's create a file named ken containing the words Ken Thompson,
another one named dmr containing the words Dennis M. Ritchie,
and a third one named a-file.
By running ls in the current directory,
we see that it contains a-file, ken and dmr.
Incidentally, Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie
are the two main creators of the Unix operating system
at the legendary Bell Labs.
To remove a file we use the rm command.
If I enter rm a-file and list the files of the current directory again,
we see that there's only ken and dmr now in it.
To rename a file we use the mv command,
which stands for move.
As an example, I move ken into KEN in uppercase and after listing the files,
we see that there is KEN now in uppercase and dmr in lowercase.
To create a new directory we use the command mkdir.
Let's use mkdir to create a directory called names.
I now move KEN into names
and KEN no longer exists in the current directory.
We can also specify a complete new name for a file.
For instance, I move dmr into the directory names
changing at the same time its name to DMR in uppercase.
Listing the names directory
we verify that it contains KEN and DMR both in uppercase.
To copy a file we use a command cp after copy.
So, after copying names/KEN to .
. represents the current directory,
I list the contents of the current directory once more
and we see that there is the file KEN and the directory names here.
Catenating KEN we verify that it contains Ken Thompson,
which are the original contents of the file I previously copied.
To remove a directory there is a different command called rmdir.
After creating a directory with mkdir
and then removing it with rmdir, the directory no longer exists here.
Let's now see commands and command line options
that allow you to recurse directory hierarchies.
I create a directory named files with two files in it, a and b.
Trying to copy files into another directory, files2,
we notice that cp results in an error,
informing us that the directory files cannot be copied.
Listing the current directory, we verify that it still contains files.
cp allows us to specify an r option, which stands for recursive copy.
With this I can copy files into files2 along with all its contents.
By listing files2 we verify that it indeed contains files a and b.
Similarly, ls accepts a capital R option which provides a recursive listing.
In this case, it displays that the current directory contains directories
files and files2 along with their contents, files a and b.
On the other hand, rmdir fails to remove non-empty directories,
so attempting to remove directory files2
we get a warning that the directory is not empty.
To bypass this warning we need to specify the -rf option to the command rm,
which stands for recursive force remove,
force for removing read-only files without asking.
In this way, if I enter rm -rf files2
and then list the contents of the current directory,
we notice that files2 is now removed.
Be careful with rm -rf
as it's one of the most dangerous commands;
depending on your privileges,
rm -rf / force deletes everything in the root directory
while rm -rf * or rm -rf.
force deletes everything in the current directory.
This concludes our foundations unit on files and directories; stay with us!

# References

[UNIX For Beginners; Brian W. Kernighan](https://wolfram.schneider.org/bsd/7thEdManVol2/beginners/beginners.pdf) (Original Unix user documentation)
[An Introduction to the UNIX Shell; S. R. Bourne](https://wolfram.schneider.org/bsd/7thEdManVol2/shell/shell.pdf)
[Shell Command Language](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/idx/shell.html)(Unix standard specification)
[mkdir](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/mkdir.html)(Unix standard specification) 
[pwd](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/pwd.html)(Unix standard specification) 
[cd](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/cd.html)(Unix standard specification) 
[cp](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/cp.html)(Unix standard specification) 
[mv](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/rm.html)(Unix standard specification)
[rm](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/rmdir.html)(Unix standard specification)
[rmdir](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/rmdir.html)(Unix standard specification)
